force is a push or pull.
organ is a group of tissues of different kinds working together to perform a task.
reptile is an animal that has dry, scaly skin.
carbon dioxide is a gas breathed out by animals.
experiment is an organized test designed to support or disprove a hypothesis.
carnivore is an animal that eats other animals.
submersible is something that can work underwater.
producer is an organism that makes its own food.
simple machine is the basic machines that make up other machines.
composite volcano is a volcano made up of layers of lava and ash.
stamen is the part of the plant that holds the male cells for reproduction.
kidney is a bean-shaped organ that filters water and waste materials out of the blood.
succession is the process that gradually changes an existing ecosystem into another ecosystem.
leaf is the part of a plant that collects light from the Sun.
storm surge is a very large series of waves caused by high winds over a large area of ocean.
comet is a small mass of dust and ice that orbits the sun in a long, oval-shaped path.
carbon dioxide is a gas in the air.
landform is a natural feature on Earth's surface.
forest floor is the ground level of a forest ecosystem.
magma is melted rock inside Earth.
earthquake is a sudden shaking or trembling in Earth's crust.
competition is the struggle among living things for the same resources.
mechanical energy is motion, or the energy in moving objects.
abrasion is the peeling or scraping away of an outer layer.
star is a huge, burning sphere of gases.
star is the sun.
hybrid is having two or more different things mixed together.
electromagnet is an arrangement of wire wrapped around a core producing a temporary magnet.
metamorphic rock is a rock changed by heat or pressure, but not completely melted.
mammal is an animal that has hair and produces milk for its young.
stratosphere is the layer of atmosphere that contains ozone and is located above the troposphere.
camouflage is an animal's color or pattern that helps it blend in with its surroundings.
adaptation is a special trait that helps an organism survive in its environment.
adaptation is a body part or behavior that helps an animal meet its needs in its environment.
pulley is a simple machine made up of a rope or chain and a wheel around which the rope fits.
volcano is a mountain that forms when red-hot melted rock flows through a crack onto Earth's surface.
orbit is the path that an object such as a planet makes as it revolves around a second object.
instinct is a behavior that an animal begins life with.
cumulus is Puffy cotton-ball clouds that begin to form when water droplets condense at middle altitudes.
deep ocean current is an ocean current formed when cold water flows underneath warm water.
cast is a fossil formed when sediments or minerals fill a mold.
cast is it takes on the same outside shape as the living thing that shaped the mold.
effort force is the force put on one part of the bar when you push or pull on a lever.
pressure is a squeezing force that pushes things together.
branch is one of the paths that electric current can follow.
insulator is a material that current cannot pass through easily.
salinity is the amount of salt in water.
fossil is the remains of a living thing from many years ago.
deposition is the dropping off of weathered rock at the end of erosion.
classification is the grouping of things by using a set of rules.
hot spot is a place where magma has partially melted through Earth's crust.
shelter is a place where an animal is protected from other animals or from the weather.
normal fault is the crack or sentence between two plates that are pulling apart.
magma chamber is an underground pool below a volcano that holds magma.
stomata is holes on the bottoms of leaves through which air and water pass.
inclined plane is a flat surface with one end higher than the other.
chloroplast is a part of a plant cell that contains chlorophyll, the green pigment plants need to make their food.
lava rock is another name for pumice, an extrusive igneous rock.
